Resources and scheduling (#124)
pretix/pretix-docs: docs/guides/resources-and-scheduling.md

You can assign multiple user accounts to a resource in ":fa3-cube: Thing or place" mode.
It is not possible to change the mode after you have created the resource type.

pretix will send the email under "Booking pending confirmation" to the email address associated with the individual resource whenever you assign the resource to a date.
pretix will send the email under "Booking confirmed" to the email address associated with the individual resource whenever the recipient confirms a booking through the previous email.
You set the email address for each resource individually.
See [managing individual resources](resources-and-scheduling.md#managing-individual-resources) for more information.

Adapt the subject and message text of both emails to your liking.
You should always include the placeholders `{url_available}` and `{url_unavailable}` in the "Booking pending confirmation" email message.
You need these links to confirm or decline a booking.
We also recommend using the other placeholders in your email message because they communicate relevant information.

Click the :btn:Save: button.

### Managing properties

> Most resources are not interchangeable.

Reviewer: I wasn't sure what this is trying to say at first read.

Resources are somewhat interchangeable, that's the whole point, but only "within some groups"?

I know, this is all really abstract. Can also stay this way.

    If you are instead making appointments with groups or individuals, then using the [Quick entry](resources-and-scheduling.md#quick-entry) feature may be more convenient.

Navigate to :Navpath:Your event series → :fa3-calendar:Dates: and click the :btn-icon:fa3-plus: Create many new dates: button.
Set up the dates according to your preferences.
For general information on creating dates, see [Creating and editing dates in the event series](event-series.md#creating-and-editing-dates-in-the-event-series).

Under the heading "Quotas", in the field labeled "Products", select the product you created in the [previous step](resources-and-scheduling.md#creating-a-product-for-scheduling).

We recommend only selecting one product with resource requirements.
pretix applies resource requirements once for every product that has them.
If your date has two products that both require a guide, then your date will require two guides for scheduling.

If you want to sell tours and tickets as separate products, then you should add a tour product with requirements and any number of regular tickets that do not have requirements.

### Assigning resources to dates

> In order to assign resources to dates, navigate to :navpath:Your event → :fa3-calendar: Scheduling → Dashboard:.

Reviewer 2: I strongly agree and I would add some remark that one has to monitor that dashboard closely.

Click the field and select the individual resource you want to assign.

![Date settings page, scrolled to the bottom. The section 'Additional settings' has the subheading 'Schedule' with a dropdown menu for 'Guide'. The dropdown is opened, showing the result 'Jamie Doe' with properties 'English, Toki Pona, Adults, Teenagers, Children, Egypt, Sumer · requires confirmation](../assets/screens/resources-scheduling/assign-resource.png "Assigning a resource")

Assume, for instance, your date requires a resource of the type "Guide".
The required properties are "Children", "Egypt", and "English".
Click the field and select a guide that fulfills those requirements.

Click the :btn:Save: button.
As soon as you do this, your event's contact mail address will send an email to the resource's notification email address.

### Quick entry

The "Quick entry" feature allows you to find out when required resources for a product are available on a given date.
This is useful if you are making an appointment with a group of customers, for instance when scheduling a tour.
It is also useful if you want to create dates based on when the required resources are available.

!!! Note

>     The quick entry feature is useful if you are making appointments with groups or individuals.

Reviewer: The quick entry can be used to create dates that are available for public booking, it just does not make sense for recurring dates.

```suggestion
    The quick entry feature is useful if you are making appointments with groups or individuals or want to create scheduled tours individually one by one.
```

# Resources and scheduling

If your event schedule depends on the availability of personnel, spaces, equipment, or other resources, then you should use the "Resources and scheduling" plugin.

> This plugin allows you to manage those resources and schedule dates in your [event series](event-series.md) accordingly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your event schedule depends on the availability of resources like personnel, spaces, or equipment, then you should use the "Resources and scheduling" plugin. It allows you to manage these and any other resources to schedule dates in your [event series](event-series.md) accordingly.
```
I like the introduction, but I've modified it a little bit to underscore that it's not just those mentioned resources but any resources one can manage with this plugin.

On the use of 'personnel': This is correct, but sounds a little bit formal to me. Maybe 'staff' is more suitable?

In that case, click the :btn:Manage events: button.

![Page titled 'Events with plugin Resources and Scheduling', displaying a green infobox saying 'The plugin Resources and Scheduling is now active' as well as a list of events for which the plugin can be enabled or disabled.](../assets/screens/resources-scheduling/plugin-events.png "Events with plugin Resources and Scheduling")

Both buttons take you to a page listing the organizer's events.
Check every event series with which you want to use the plugin and click the :btn:Save: button.

Alternatively, in order to enable the plugin for an individual event series, navigate to :navpath:Your event series → :fa3-wrench: Settings → Plugins:.
Search the "Resources and Scheduling" plugin in the list and click the :btn:Enable: button.
If the plugin is already active, then it will have a green ":fa3-check: Active" tag next to it.

### Creating resource types

!!! Note
    Once you have created a resource type, it is not possible to delete it from the organizer account entirely.
    You can still edit and rename the resource type in order to repurpose it.

> Before you can create and manage individual resources, you have to create resource types.

Reviewer 2: Should we go a little bit more into detail as how the process runs? That you have to create resource types beforehand and after doing so one can create individual resources representing actual resources of the defined types?

Once you are happy with your choices, click the :btn:Save: button.

In order to remove a property, click the :btn-icon:fa3-minus-circle: Remove: button next to it.
This will display a box listing the resources that this change will affect.
Removing the property will also remove that property from all affected resources, along with all defined values.
If you are sure that you want to do this, confirm the removal by clicking :btn:Yes, remove this property:.

### Managing individual resources

After you have created a resource type and added properties to it, you can create individual resources.
An individual resource may, for example, represent the following:

 - a person who works at your venue as a guide
 - a room
 - a piece of equipment

Every resource type you created in the previous step has added a new submenu under :navpath:Your organizer → :fa3-briefcase: Resources:.
Navigate to the submenu for the resource type you created in the previous step.
For instance, if you created a resource type named "Guide", navigate to :navpath:Your organizer → :fa3-briefcase: Resources → Guide:.

Click the :btn-icon:fa3-plus: Add a Guide: button.

> If your resource has a different name, then the button will have a different label, too.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your resource has a different name, then the button will be named accordingly.
```

Assume, for instance, your guide's availability is expected to stay the same July through September 2027.
They will work Monday through Friday from 8 AM to 4 PM.
They will not be available on Tuesday at 12 AM to 2 PM because of a weekly team meeting.

In that case, you enter a "Start" date of `2027-07-01` and an "End" of `2027-09-30`.
Select all days from Monday through Friday.
Select a "Start time" of `09:00:00` and an end time of `17:00:00`.
Click the :btn:Save: button in the popup.

Click the :btn-icon:fa3-plus: Add rule: button again.
Enter the same "Start" and "End" times as above.
Check "Tuesday".
Enter a "Start time" of `12:00:00` and an "End time" of `14:00:00`.
Under "Available", select "Resource is unavailable".
Click the :btn:Save: button in the popup.

The calendar view under "Resulting availability" will now display the available times for this resource.

> 

Reviewer 2: There's also an option to copy the calendar's URL for this resource.

![Email from pretix with the standard content defined in the resource type settings: info about the date and links for confirming or denying the scheduling](../assets/screens/resources-scheduling/confirm-scheduling.png "Request confirmation email")

In order to confirm scheduling, click the link that ends with `confirm`.
This takes you to a webpage saying "Thank you for your response, the event organizer has been notified".
The pretix server will also send an email to the resource's managers confirming the scheduling.
Both the scheduling dashboard and the page for the individual date will display a note saying that the requirement for the date has been fulfilled.

![Email from pretix with the standard content defined in the resource type settings proclaiming that Jamie Doe has been scheduled.](../assets/screens/resources-scheduling/scheduled.png "Confirmation email message")

In order to decline the scheduling, click the link that ends with `deny`.
This also takes you to a webpage saying "Thank you for your response, the event organizer has been notified".
The pretix server will not send a confirmation email.
The requirement for the date will remain open.

> ## Troubleshooting

Reviewer 2: I would add

### Organizer permissions
If you're administrator of your organizer account make sure that your organizer teams have the appropriate permissions to view and or make changes to the resources after you've enabled the plugin.

# Resources and scheduling

If your event schedule depends on the availability of staff, spaces, equipment, or other resources, then you should use the "Resources and scheduling" plugin.
This plugin allows you to manage those resources and schedule dates in your [event series](event-series.md) accordingly.
This article tells you how to use it.

## Prerequisites

You need to have at least one event series with which you want to use resources and scheduling.
The plugin offers no useful features for singular events.

## How to

Using resources and scheduling involves the following steps:

 1. [Enabling the plugin](resources-and-scheduling.md#enabling-the-plugin) on the organizer level and event series level
 3. [Creating resource types](resources-and-scheduling.md#creating-resource-types) such as a type for all guides or and one for all rooms
 4. [Managing properties](resources-and-scheduling.md#managing-properties) for resource types

>  5. [Creating resources](resources-and-scheduling.md#creating-resource-types), for instance, individual guides or rooms

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 5. [Creating resources](resources-and-scheduling.md#managing-individual-resources), for instance, individual guides or rooms
```

 6. [Creating a product for scheduling](resources-and-scheduling.md#creating-a-product-for-scheduling), for instance, a guided tour ticket
 7. [Creating dates for scheduling](resources-and-scheduling.md#creating-dates-for-scheduling), for instance, guided tours
 8. [Assigning resources to dates](resources-and-scheduling.md#assigning-resources-to-dates), for instance, assigning a guide to a tour
 9. Alternatively, using the [Quick entry](resources-and-scheduling.md#quick-entry) feature for planning dates

The following sections will guide you through those steps in detail.

> In addition to that, this article explains how to [confirm or deny a scheduling](resources-and-scheduling.md#confirming-or-denying-a-scheduling) depending on the resource's availability at the scheduled time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition, this article explains how to [confirm or deny a scheduling](resources-and-scheduling.md#confirming-or-denying-a-scheduling) depending on the resource's availability at the scheduled time.
```

Both buttons take you to a page listing the organizer's events.
Check every event series with which you want to use the plugin and click the :btn:Save: button.

Alternatively, in order to enable the plugin for an individual event series, navigate to :navpath:Your event series → :fa3-wrench: Settings → Plugins:.
Search the "Resources and Scheduling" plugin in the list and click the :btn:Enable: button.
If the plugin is already active, then it will have a green ":fa3-check: Active" tag next to it.

### Creating resource types

!!! Note
    Once you have created a resource type, it is not possible to delete it from the organizer account entirely.
    You can still edit and rename the resource type in order to repurpose it.

Before you can create and manage individual resources, you have to create resource types.
A resource type may, for example, represent the following:

 - staff such as guides, instructors, supervisors, etc.

>  - facilities such as specialized rooms, sports courts, theater halls, etc.

Reviewer 3: > - facilities such as specialized rooms, sports courts, theater halls, etc.

"court" verbinde ich mit sehr spezifischen Sportarten (namentlich solchen mit breit-rundem Schläger und kleinem Ball), ist die Assoziation beabsichtigt?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 - facilities such as specialized rooms, sports courts, theatre halls, etc.
```

... ich stelle fest, dass die längliche Diskussion dazu wohl in Direktnachrichten stattfand.

Author: Im UI (eine Stelle) und in der sonstigen Doku (zwei Stellen + offene PRs) ist das bisher überall "theater". Auch sonst halten wir uns eher an die vereinfachten Schreibweisen, z.B. -or statt -our. Merriam-Webster empfiehlt die. 
Vertagen wir die Diskussion + Umsetzung nach das Mergen dieses PRs?

 - equipment such as audio guides, film screening equipment, pedal boats, etc.

You can use pretix to manage any kind of resource and create a resource type for it.
You should create exactly one resource type for every type of resource that you want to manage.

!!! Note
    We recommend creating **as few resource types** as possible.
    For instance, if you employ tour guides and workshop instructors, then you should create only one resource type named "Staff member".

>     This makes it easier to manage staff who work both as tour guides and workshop instructors.

Reviewer 3: >    This makes it easier to manage staff who work both as tour guides and workshop instructors.

"This makes it easier" ist eine sehr schwache Formulierung für "andernfalls gibt es wirklich Schwierigkeiten"; kannst du da noch mal nachschärfen?

    pretix only checks for conflicts of availability within the same resource type.

>     Thus, it does not make sense to add the same individual resource to two different resource types in pretix.

Reviewer 3: >    Thus, it does not make sense to add the same individual resource to two different resource types in pretix.

Hier wiederum hätte ich uns die philosophische Sinnfrage erspart und wäre Richtung "it is inadvisable/it is unwise/it is unhelpful" gegangen. 
Wenn es zu viel Zeit kostet, meinetwegen lassen.

![Page titled 'Create a new resource type', displaying inputs for name and plural name, as well as email settings.](../assets/screens/resources-scheduling/resource-type.png "Create a new resource type")

In order to create a new resource type, navigate to :navpath:Your organizer → :fa3-briefcase: Resources → Types:.
Enter a "Name" for the resource type.

If you do not enter a "Plural name", then pretix will append an `s` to the "Name" for the plural.
If the plural of your resource type's name is not formed by appending an `s` to the end, specify a "Plural name".
For instance, if the name of your resource type is `Person`, enter `People` in the "Plural name" field.

Select the "Mode" for your resource type.

> You can assign one user account to resources in ":fa3-user: Human" mode.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can assign one user account to individual resources in ":fa3-user: Human" mode.
```

Die Unterscheidung zwischen "resource" und "resource type" scheint mir schnell überlesen.

Eventuell wäre hier auch ein Beispiel hilfreich?

Reviewer 3: Weitere Fragen, die wir relativ explizit beantworten sollten:
- Was tut der mode jeweils?
- Was tun die Mailadressen jeweils?

You can assign multiple user accounts to a resource in ":fa3-cube: Thing or place" mode.
It is not possible to change the mode after you have created the resource type.

> You can configure emails for "Booking pending confirmation" and for "Booking confirmed" on this page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can configure the text of emails for "Booking pending confirmation" and for "Booking confirmed" on this page.
```

pretix will send these emails to the email address of the account that manages these resources.
See [managing individual resources](resources-and-scheduling.md#managing-individual-resources) for more information.

Whenever you assign a resource that requires confirmation to a date, pretix will send out the "Booking pending confirmation" email.
If the recipient confirms the booking through the previous email, then pretix will send the "Booking confirmed" email.
pretix will also send the "Booking confirmed" email if you assign a resource that does not require confirmation to a date.

> Adapt the subject and message text of both emails to your liking.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Adjust the subject and message text of both emails to your liking.
```

You should always include the placeholders `{url_available}` and `{url_unavailable}` in the "Booking pending confirmation" email message.
The person managing the resource needs these links to confirm or decline a booking.

> We also recommend using the other placeholders in your email message because they communicate relevant information.

Reviewer 3: > We also recommend using the other placeholders in your email message because they communicate relevant information.

Ist an der entsprechenden Stelle hinreichend offensichtlich, welche Platzhalter das sind?

Click the :btn:Save: button.

### Managing properties

> Most resources have one or multiple properties that vary from one to the next and that are relevant for booking.

Reviewer 3: > Most resources have one or multiple properties that vary from one to the next and that are relevant for booking.

... from one to the next _what_? => Umformulieren.

> For instance, guides at a museum may speak different languages, be familiar with different exhibitions, or be proficient with different kinds of audiences.

Reviewer 3: > For instance, guides at a museum may speak different languages, be familiar with different exhibitions, or be proficient with different kinds of audiences.

Können wir noch ein anderes Beispiel einfügen?

You can use pretix to keep track of these properties while scheduling dates.

In order to edit properties on a resource type, navigate to :navpath:Your organizer → :fa3-briefcase: Resources → Types:.
Click the :btn-icon:fa3-edit:: edit button next to the resource type in the list.
Under the headline "Properties", you can manage properties.
Alternatively, you can add properties while creating a new resource type.

Assume, for example, you are creating a property type for museum guides.

> These conference rooms differ as to how many people they seat and whether or not they have a projector for presentations.

Reviewer 3: > These conference rooms differ as to how many people they seat and whether or not they have a projector for presentations.

Im Satz davor ist nicht von Räumen die Rede, sondern von Museumsführer*innen. Da scheint beim Editieren etwas schiefgegangen zu sein ...
=> bitte anpassen.

After you have created a resource type and added properties to it, you can create individual resources.
An individual resource may, for example, represent the following:

 - a person who works at your venue as a guide
 - a room
 - a piece of equipment

Every resource type you created in the previous step has added a new submenu under :navpath:Your organizer → :fa3-briefcase: Resources:.
Navigate to the submenu for the resource type you created in the previous step.
For instance, if you created a resource type named "Guide", navigate to :navpath:Your organizer → :fa3-briefcase: Resources → Guide:.

Click the :btn-icon:fa3-plus: Add a Guide: button.
If your resource has a different name, then the button will have a different label, too.

If the resource you are creating represents a person, enter their name under "Name".
Under "Locale", select the language you want to use to communicate with the person through pretix.
Check the box next to "Require confirmation".

![Page titled 'Add a Guide', displaying input fields for name 'Jamie Doe', locale 'English', and a checked box labeled 'Require confirmation'. ](../assets/screens/resources-scheduling/add-guide.png "Add guide")

> If the resource represents an inanimate object, enter a unique identifier such as the room number or an inventory number.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the resource represents an inanimate object, enter a unique identifier such as a room number or an inventory number.
```

Reviewer 3: > If the resource represents an inanimate object, enter a unique identifier such as a room number or an inventory number.

Sind Räume Objekte?

Vielleicht
```suggestion
If the resource represents an inanimate object or location, enter a unique identifier such as a room number or an inventory number.
```

?

> Select the "Locale" corresponding to the person or team in charge of the resource.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Select the "Locale" appropriate for the person or team in charge of the resource.
```

Es handelt sich ja nicht um ein 1:1-Verhältnis, wo nur ein Team Englisch sprechen kann und eines Deutsch z.B. ...

Once you are happy with your choices, click :btn:Save and continue with more settings:.

![Page titled 'Guide: Jamie Doe'. It has the same settings as the previous page, plus options for adding properties to the resource, and setting rules for its availability. The page displays available time slots in green in a calendar view.](../assets/screens/resources-scheduling/edit-guide.png "Edit guide")

The process of adding managers to the resource is different depending on whether the resource is in "human" mode or in "thing or place" mode.

If you are creating a **human** resource, then the page has a field labeled "Managed by".
Enter the email address of the associated pretix user account in that field.

If the email address you enter is not associated with a pretix user account yet, then pretix will send an invitation email to them.
This is similar to the way pretix sends out an invitation if you [invite someone to your team](teams.md#inviting-someone-to-your-team).

If the resource is a **thing** or **place**, then the page will have a :btn-icon:fa3-users: Managers: button at the top.
Click that button.

> This takes you to a page listing managers for the resource.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This takes you to a page listing all managers for the resource.
```

Enter the email address of the pretix user account that belongs to one of the people managing the resource.
Click the :btn-icon:fa3-plus: Add: button.

> Repeat this step for every person that manages the resource.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Repeat this step for every person who manages the resource.
```

For instance, if you are adding a guide and they speak English and Toki Pona, click the "Languages" field and select `English` and `Toki Pona`.

Once you are happy with your configuration of the resource, click the :btn:Save: button.
The :btn:Save: button does not affect the availability settings in the right half of the page.
The next section explains how to use them.

#### Setting availability for a resource

Under "Availability timetable", define when the resource is available.
Click the :btn-icon:fa3-plus: Add rule: button.
This opens a popup window titled "Add a new availability rule".

![Page with a popup open titled 'Add a new availability rule'. Under 'Schedule', there are inputs for start, end, weekdays, and timezone. Under 'Timeframe', there are inputs for start time and end time as well as a toggle labeled 'Available' with the options 'Resource is available' and 'Resource is unavailable'.](../assets/screens/resources-scheduling/availability.png "Add a new availability rule")

Assume, for instance, your guide's availability is expected to stay the same July through September 2027.
They will work Monday through Friday from 8 AM to 4 PM.

> They will not be available on Tuesday at 12 AM to 2 PM because of a weekly team meeting.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
They will not be available on Tuesdays from 12 AM to 2 PM because of a weekly team meeting.
```

In that case, you enter a "Start" date of `2027-07-01` and an "End" of `2027-09-30`.
Select all days from Monday through Friday.

> Select a "Start time" of `09:00:00` and an end time of `17:00:00`.

Reviewer 3: > Select a "Start time" of `09:00:00` and an end time of `17:00:00`.

Diese Zeiten passen nicht zu den in Z. 204 genannten.
Dort heißt es aktuell:
> hey will work Monday through Friday from 8 AM to 4 PM.

=> bitte vereinheitlichen.

Click the :btn:Save: button in the popup.

Click the :btn-icon:fa3-plus: Add rule: button again.
Enter the same "Start" and "End" times as above.
Check "Tuesday".
Enter a "Start time" of `12:00:00` and an "End time" of `14:00:00`.
Under "Available", select "Resource is unavailable".
Click the :btn:Save: button in the popup.

The calendar view under "Resulting availability" will now display the available times for this resource.

#### Deleting and reactivating resources

If you want to delete a resource, navigate to the submenu for the corresponding resource type.
Click the :btn-icon:fa3-trash:: button next to the resource you want to delete.
Alternatively, click the name of the resource and then click the :btn-icon:fa3-trash:: button in the top right corner.
Both buttons take you to a page asking you to confirm the deletion.

If you never scheduled the resource for any events, then pretix will delete the resource completely.

> If you did schedule the resource for events, then pretix will keep a record of that resource.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you did schedule the resource for events, then pretix will keep a record of the resource.
```

You can view that record by navigating to the submenu for the corresponding resource type.
Under "Resource status", select `Deleted resources` or `All resources` and click the :btn-icon:fa3-filter: Filter: button.
The page displays deleted resources with their names crossed out.

If you want to reactivate the resource, click its name.

> On the page for the individual resource, click the :btn-icon:fa3-rotate-right: Undelete: button.

Reviewer 3: > On the page for the individual resource, click the :btn-icon:fa3-rotate-right: Undelete: button.

Heißt der wirklich so? D: Können wir das noch schnell ändern?

Confirm by clicking the :btn:Reactivate: button.
You are now able to schedule the resource for dates again.

### Creating a product for scheduling

Navigate to :Navpath:Your event series → :fa3-ticket:Products: and create or edit a product.
For general information on creating products, see our guide on [products](products/index.md).
Do **not** add the product to any quotas.
Open the :btn:Requirements: tab.

![Page titled 'Modify product: Tour ticket' with the 'Requirements' tab open. The 'Default duration (minutes)' is '90'. The 'Default quota size' is '30'. The box 'Allow customers to book before resources are scheduled' is checked. Under 'Requirements', the resource type 'Guide' is selected with an 'Amount' of '1'.](../assets/screens/resources-scheduling/product-requirements.png "Modify product—Requirements")

> In the "Default duration (minutes)" field, enter the time resources will typically be booked for.

Reviewer 3: > In the "Default duration (minutes)" field, enter the time resources will typically be booked for.

Insb. "time resources" fließt beim Lesen zunächst ungünstig zusammen ...
> In the "Default duration (minutes)" field, enter the amount of time for which a booked resource will typically be blocked.

o.ä.? Geht bestimmt schöner.

For instance, if a tour guide can accommodate no more than 30 people at a time, enter `30`.

If you want to assign resources to dates based on customer demand, you should check the box next to "Allow customers to book before resources are scheduled".
If you check this box, your shop will display all dates to which this product grants access, even if you have not scheduled any resources for them.

!!! Note
    Activating the setting "Allow customers to book before resources are scheduled" may cause situations in which you have sold tickets for a date, but no resources available for that date.
    Thus, this use case requires you to monitor bookings closely.

If you want to assign resources to dates before selling any tickets for those dates, then you should leave it unchecked.
This way, you need to assign all required resources for a date first.
The date will only become available for booking in your shop after you have done so.

Click the :btn-icon:fa3-plus: Add a new requirement: button.
Select the "Resource type" that is necessary for this date.
Under "Amount", specify the amount of resources of this type that are necessary, usually `1`.

> If you need more personell, rooms, or pieces of equipment, enter the number you need.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you need more personnel, rooms, or pieces of equipment, enter the number you need.
```

Navigate to :Navpath:Your event series → :fa3-calendar:Dates: and click the :btn-icon:fa3-plus: Create many new dates: button.
Set up the dates according to your preferences.
For general information on creating dates, see [Creating and editing dates in the event series](event-series.md#creating-and-editing-dates-in-the-event-series).

Under the heading "Quotas", in the field labeled "Products", select the product you created in the [previous step](resources-and-scheduling.md#creating-a-product-for-scheduling).

We recommend selecting only one product with resource requirements.
pretix applies resource requirements once for every product that has them.
If your date has two products that both require a guide, then your date will require two guides for scheduling.
If you want to offer multiple tours at the same time, create one date for each of them.

If you want to sell tours and tickets as separate products, then you should add a tour product with requirements and any number of regular tickets that do not have requirements.

> We recommend configuring tickets for the tour as add-on products to the tour product.

Reviewer 3: > We recommend configuring tickets for the tour as add-on products to the tour product.

In dem Fall sind Tickets und Touren keine separaten Produkte mehr, oder?
Ich hatte "tickets" zwei Zeilen darüber als "z.B. Eintrittskarte für das Museum" verstanden; war das nicht gemeint?

Assume, for instance, your date requires a resource of the type "Guide".
The required properties are "Children", "Egypt", and "English".
Click the field.

A drop-down menu opens, listing all resources of the type "Guide".
The menu helps you select an appropriate resource by displaying tags next to each entry:
`conflicting booking`, `availability unknown`, `unavailable`, or `does not match requirements`.
If an entry does not have any of those issues, then it will have none of those tags.
Select an entry with no issue tags next to it.

Click the :btn:Save: button.
As soon as you do this, your event's contact mail address will send an email to the resource's managers.

### Quick entry

The "Quick entry" feature allows you to find out when required resources for a product are available on a given date.
This is useful if you are making an appointment with a group of customers, for instance when scheduling a tour.
It is also useful if you want to create dates based on when the required resources are available.

!!! Note
    The quick entry feature is useful if you are making appointments with groups or individuals.

>     It is also useful

Reviewer 3: >    It is also useful

Hier scheint beim Editieren ein halber Satz verlorengegangen zu sein - oder wurde verdoppelt.
Bitte noch mal genau auf die Logik von einer Zeile weiter oben bis eine Zeile weiter unten gucken.

Choose a starting time for your date by selecting it under "Available times" or entering it under "Start time".
pretix will only suggest times for which it has stored information that sufficient resources are available.
You can still enter any other time manually, even if pretix has no record of available resources at that time.
If you selected multiple products on the previous page, use the "Product" drop-down menu to choose a specific product.
If you selected only a single product, then pretix will carry that selection over to the drop-down menu.

If check the box next to "Show publicly", then the setting "Show in lists" for this date will be activated and your shop's calendar and list views will display this date to costumers.
Uncheck this box if you do not want the date to be visible to all visitors of your online shop.

If you want to create an order for the date right away, check the box next to "Create order".
Click the :btn:Continue: button.

If you checked the box next to "Create order", then the next page allows you to enter details for that order.
This is a simplified form.

> If you want to add further information to the order that pretix does not display on this page, use the "Orders" menu.

Reviewer 3: > If you want to add further information to the order that pretix does not display on this page, use the "Orders" menu.

Gegenüber Raphaels Kommentar fehlt hier jetzt das Detail, welche Informationen später hinzugefügt werden können.
